# JVM Architecture How JVM works

## Definition:

1. JVM\(Java Virtual Machine\) acts as a run-time engine to run Java applications. 
2. JVM is the one that actually calls the main method present in a java code. 
3. JVM is a part of JRE\(Java Run Environment\).

   Java applications are called WORA \(Write Once Run Everywhere\). This means a programmer can develop Java code on one system and can expect it to run on any other Java enabled system without any adjustment. This is all possible because of JVM.

When we compile a .java file, a .class file\(contains byte-code\) with the same filename is generated by the Java compiler. _This .class file goes into various steps when we run it._ These steps together describe the whole JVM.

## [JVM architecture](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/jvm-works-jvm-architecture/)

### 1. Class Loader

#### Loading

#### Linking

#### Initialization

### 2. JVM Memory

#### Method area :

In method area, all class level information like class name, immediate parent class name, methods and variables information etc. are stored, including static variables. There is only one method area per JVM, and it is a shared resource.

#### Heap area :

Information of all objects is stored in heap area. There is also one Heap Area per JVM. It is also a shared resource.

#### Stack area :

For every thread, JVM create one run-time stack which is stored here. Every block of this stack is called activation record/stack frame which store methods calls. All local variables of that method are stored in their corresponding frame. After a thread terminate, it’s run-time stack will be destroyed by JVM. It is not a shared resource.

#### PC Registers :

Store address of current execution instruction of a thread. Obviously each thread has separate PC Registers.

#### Native method stacks :

For every thread, separate native stack is created. It stores native method information.

### 3. Execution Engine

### 4. Java Native Interface \(JNI\) :

### 5. Native Method Libraries :

